#summary How to install the archiver

= Introduction =

The recommended way to install the entire backend is using Debian packages.  The process has been tested on Ubuntu 11.10, although it will probably work on other similar distributions.  If an ubuntu machine is not available, or you wish to install the system manually, please read to the end.

= Automated Install =

If you are on Ubuntu 11.10, you can add our package repository using
{{{
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:stevedh/smap
$ sudo apt-get update
}}}

The archive is here (https://launchpad.net/~stevedh/+archive/smap); only the builds for oneiric is working.

You can then install the entire system using apt:

{{{
$ apt-get install readingdb readingdb-python python-smap powerdb2 monit
}}}

You will be prompted to create a django admin account during this installation.

The Debian packages will automatically setup and start all required services, with the exception of the web frontend.  They install an apache site called `powerdb2`; if you are not running anything else on your server you can enable it by doing the following; if you have multiple sites you may want to edit the site to add a HostName.

{{{
$ sudo a2dissite default
$ sudo a2ensite powerdb2
$ sudo service apache2 reload
}}}

Following this step, you should be able to visit "http://localhost" in your browser and see the front end.  You will also have access to "http://localhost/admin", through which you can manage API keys and the trees visible in the plotting front-end.

== Sending data ==

Once everything is running, you'll want to create a feed and send it to your installation.  Go to `http://localhost/admin`, and log in with the superuser account you've created.  You can then add a new subscription, which will generate an API key; it will be visible as a random 36-character string.

Then create a configuration file called `conf.ini` with the following contents; replace the `<MY NEW KEY>` with the value you generated on the web page.
{{{
[report 0]
ReportDeliveryLocation = http://localhost:8079/add/<MY NEW KEY>

[/]
uuid = 4a1ed488-a458-11e1-91af-00508dca5a06

[/example]
type = smap.drivers.example.Driver
}}}

You'll then be able to start the source with a 
{{{
$ twistd -n smap conf.ini
}}}

After a few moments, you should see some data being sent to your local server, and then be able to find it on the plotting web page.

= Manual Install =

Installing the archiver has a few steps, which aren't very well automated at the moment.  They are

  # Install *readingdb*, the time-series database.,
  # Install and set up postgres, and populate it with the necessary tables.
  # Install the python dependancies for the archiver.

This assumes you're running debian or maybe ubuntu.  For other distributions, the dependancies will be the same, but how you install them is probably different.


The repository homepage can be found here: https://launchpad.net/~stevedh/+archive/smap

== Install *readingdb* ==

The easiest way to install readingdb on ubuntu is using the package repository.  Just do a 
{{{
$ apt-get install readingdb readingdb-python monit
}}}

Monit is a service manager which can keep a lot of our services running.  Once you've done this, do a `monit reload`, and you should see *readingdb* started before long.

Alternatively, you can build and install readingdb from source using the instructions at https://github.com/stevedh/readingdb

== Get the sMAP Archiver Source ==

At the moment, you should start from svn by following the checkout instructions.  You will want to check out both the sMAP distribution and the powerdb projects:

{{{
$ svn checkout http://smap-data.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ smap-data-read-only
$ svn checkout http://smap-data.googlecode.com/svn/branches/powerdb2/ powerdb2
$ cd smap-data-read-only/python
$ sudo python setup.py install
}}}

== Setup postgres ==

Follow the instructions for your operating system to install postgres.  You may have to change `listen_addresses`, and may wish to adjust `shared_buffers` to increase the size of the buffer pool.  You probably also want to turn `autovacuum` on to avoid badness.

Once you've done this, create an account and database for the archiver.  Let's say (logged in as root),

{{{
CREATE USER archiver WITH PASSWORD 'password';
CREATE DATABASE archiver WITH owner = archiver;
}}}

== Install Python Dependencies ==

You'll need python dependencies for both the archiver and the powerdb project:

  * twisted
  * zope.interface
  * avro
  * ply
  * psycopg2
  * python-dateutil
  * ordereddict
  * django 1.4
  * numpy
  * scipy

I recommend installing all of these except for numpy and scipy using  `easy_install`, from pypi.  The versions from pypi are managed by the individual teams and are usually more up-to-date.

=== Notes ===
  # The avro packages are a bit messed up due to dependencies on snappy.  I recommend installing it without dependencies using `easy_install -N avro`.

== Setup *powerdb2* and the database ==

PowerDB provides the web frontend for viewing your data.  Although you can use smap drivers and the archiver without it, it provides a convenient interface for managing api keys and looking at data.

In `powerdb2/`, edit `settings.py` to point to your databases.  For instance:

{{{
DATABASE_ENGINE = 'postgresql_psycopg2' 
DATABASE_NAME = 'archiver'                                                        
DATABASE_USER = 'archiver'                                    
DATABASE_PASSWORD = 'password'                                                            
DATABASE_HOST = 'localhost' 
}}}

Once you've done this, you should go ahead and create the django admin tables.  This creates all the tables needed by the archiver, so even if you're not planning on using *powerdb2*, you should still do this; alternatively the raw sql is located in `smap-data/python/smap/archiver/sql`.
{{{
$ python manage.py syncdb
}}}
Make sure you create a superuser account when prompted; if you're not prompted, run `python manage.py createsuperuser`. 

== Setup and run archiver ==

Edit the `python/conf/archiver.ini` file to have the correct postgres and readingdb databases.  If everything is running on the same machine, you shouldn't need to change much.

Now, you should be able to run the archiver using twistd (remove the "-n" to daemonize).

{{{
$ twistd -n smap-archiver -c python/conf/archiver.ini
2012-01-04 22:37:43-0800 [-] Log opened.
2012-01-04 22:37:43-0800 [-] twistd 11.1.0 (/usr/bin/python 2.6.6) starting up.
2012-01-04 22:37:43-0800 [-] Site starting on 8079
2012-01-04 22:37:43-0800 [-] Starting factory <twisted.web.server.Site instance at 0x2aacdd0>
}}}

== Start *powerdb2* ==

You should now edit `powerdb2/settings.py` so that the `ARD_URL` points to your copy of the archiver.  Once this is done, start the development server:

{{{
$ cd powerdb2
$ python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
}}}


== Running *powerdb2* in Apache ==

It's not recommended to use the django server for production use.  Apache works well and is easy to configure.  To install your project in apache, you just need to do a few things.  These steps are for an apache install where this is the only site; if you have other sites you may need to alter these steps.

  # Install the apache wsgi module: `$ apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi libapache2-mod-python`
  # Enable the apache modules: `$ a2enmod proxy_http wsgi python`
  # Disable the default site: `$ a2dissite default`
  # Collect static files: in the powerdb/ directory, do `$ python manage.py collectstatic`
  # Edit `/etc/apache2/mods-enabled/proxy.conf` and enable reverse proxying; you you can just comment out the line starting with `ProxyRequests` and the whole `<Proxy>` section.
  # Create an apache2 site.  Here is my `/etc/apache2/sites-available/001-powerdb2` file; you'll need to edit the absolute paths to point at your copy of powerdb2.
{{{
 <VirtualHost *:80>
        # statically serve media files
        Alias "/media" "/mnt/md0/django/smap2/powerdb2/static/"

        # reverse proxy the backend through a failover pool
        ProxyPass "/backend" http://locahost:8079

        # serve the django project using WSGI
        WSGIScriptAlias / /mnt/md0/django/smap2/powerdb2/django.wsgi
        
        # make sure to enable gzip responses
        SetOutputFilter DEFLATE
        SetEnvIfNoCase Request_URI \
        \.(?:gif|jpe?g|png)$ no-gzip dont-vary
        # Make sure proxies don't deliver the wrong content
</VirtualHost>
}}}
  # Finally, enable the site: `a2ensite powerdb2` and restart apache: `/etc/init.d/apache2 reload`.